docs:tail new features (#11105)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/sql/tail.md

{{< /warning >}}

> {{< version-changed v0.8.1 >}}

Author: I would prefer to remove them too.

conn = psycopg2.connect(dsn)

with conn.cursor() as cur:

>     cur.execute("DECLARE c CURSOR FOR TAIL mz_scheduling_elapsed")

Author: TAIL (SELECT * FROM mz_scheduling_elapsed)

    while True:
        cur.execute("FETCH ALL c")
        for row in cur:
            print(row)
```

> #### `Streaming` with Python and psycopg3

Author: If we remove it from Streaming, should we also remove it from fetch?

```csharp
var txn = conn.BeginTransaction();

> new NpgsqlCommand("DECLARE c CURSOR FOR TAIL mz_scheduling_elapsed", conn, txn).ExecuteNonQuery();

Author: Yes!

}
```

#### `FETCH` with Java

```java
  import java.sql.*;

  /* ... */

  String url = "jdbc:postgresql://localhost:6875/materialize";
  Connection conn = DriverManager.getConnection(url, "materialize", "materialize");
  Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();

  conn.setAutoCommit(false);

  stmt.executeUpdate("DECLARE c CURSOR FOR TAIL mz_scheduling_elapsed;");

  while (true) {
      ResultSet fetchResultSet = stmt.executeQuery("FETCH 100 c WITH (timeout='1s');");

      while (fetchResultSet.next()) {
          System.out.println(fetchResultSet.getString(3));
      }
  }
```

| Additional guides |
| ---------------------- |
| [Node.js](/guides/node-js/#stream)|
| [PHP](/guides/php-pdo/#stream)|
| [GO](/guides/golang/#stream) |
### Using `AS OF`

> Start Materialize with a custom compaction window [`--logical-compaction-window 10000`](/cli/#compaction-window) and create a non-materialized view:

Author: I've just tried, and it worked

```sql
CREATE VIEW most_scheduled_worker AS
  SELECT
    worker,
    SUM(elapsed_ns) as time_working
  FROM mz_scheduling_elapsed
  GROUP BY worker
  ORDER BY time_working DESC
  LIMIT 1;
```

Create an index and set a the compaction:

```sql
CREATE INDEX most_scheduled_worker_idx
  ON most_scheduled_worker (worker, time_working)
  WITH (logical_compaction_window = '10 seconds');
```

Stream out changes from ten seconds before the statement is executed:

```sql
COPY (TAIL most_scheduled_worker AS OF NOW() - INTERVAL '10 seconds') TO STDOUT;
```

> Take into account, for this example, that ten logical seconds need to pass by inside Materialize to browse and recover changes from the last ten seconds.

Author: After the last push, Github doesn't let me commit this directly. I will add them in the next batch of changes.

### Relating rows with their updates

> After all the rows from the `SNAPSHOT` have been transmitted, the updates will come as they occur,

Author: Adding it also to the next batch of changes!

but how is it possible to know which row has been updated? <br/>

| mz_timestamp | mz_progressed | mz_diff | Column 1 | .... | Column N |
| ------------ | ------------- | ------- | -------- | ---- | -------- | --------------------------- |
| 1            | false         | 1       | id1      |      | value1   |
| 1            | false         | 1       | id2      |      | value2   |
| 1            | false         | 1       | id3      |      | value3   | <- Last row from `SNAPSHOT` |
| 2            | false         | -1      | id1      |      | value1   |
| 2            | false         | 1       | id1      |      | value4   |

> If you already know your data, then any _column_ acting as a key will do the work but if the key is unknown, then using a `hash(columns_values)` could serve as your key. <br/><br/>
> Back to the example, `Column 1` acts as the key to know from where the update comes from; in case this was unknown, hashing the values from `Column 1` to `Column N` should reveal the origin row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your data has a unique key, this can be used to map an update to its corresponding row; if the key is unknown, you can use the output of `hash(columns_values)` instead. <br/><br/>
In the example above, `Column 1` acts as the key that uniquely identifies the row the update refers to; in case this was unknown, hashing the values from `Column 1` to `Column N` would identify the origin row.
```

Reviewer: Is `hash(column_values)` something we support? Or is this a generic reference to hashing functions?

Author: Generic reference to hashing functions.
Probably we support it in a wild way

> If you already know your data, then any _column_ acting as a key will do the work but if the key is unknown, then using a `hash(columns_values)` could serve as your key. <br/><br/>
> Back to the example, `Column 1` acts as the key to know from where the update comes from; in case this was unknown, hashing the values from `Column 1` to `Column N` should reveal the origin row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your data has a unique key, this can be used to map an update to its corresponding row; if the key is unknown, you can use the output of `hash(columns_values)` instead. <br/><br/>
In the example above, `Column 1` acts as the key that uniquely identifies the row the update refers to; in case this was unknown, hashing the values from `Column 1` to `Column N` would identify the origin row.
```
